+++
title = 'Privacy In Budget'
date = 2024-01-13
categories = [
    "privacy", "security", "software", "web-browser", "email", "messaging",
"password-manager", "operating-system", "networking"
]
tags = [
    "privacy", "security", "software", "web-browser", "email", "messaging",
"password-manager", "operating-system", "networking"
]
author='anhkhoakz'
+++

As a software engineering student, I love the beauty of tech, but I'm also
afraid of it.


Technologies help us a lot in every aspect of life. But it also brings a data
hunger from big tech companies.


But there is always a solution. You can get more privacy, so big companies can't
have information about you, or they have at least.


## Web-browser


You can opt out of Google Chrome by using
[Firefox](https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/firefox/releases/) and
[Ungoogled-chromium](https://ungoogled-software.github.io/), I have a [detailed
review]({{<relref "/blog/browsers-for-daily-using.md">}}).


You have to separate your activities. Creating multiple profiles for multiple
purposes is a good idea.


## Email


I know that a lot of universities give Gmail accounts to their students. It's an
easy way for them.


You can't switch email services when using school email, but you can choose an
alternative for personal purposes.


You can check out [Tuta](https://tuta.com/), [Proton](https://proton.me/).

They have an easy way to register.


If you want to have PGP by yourself, I strongly recommend it. You may look at
[Disroot](https://disroot.org/), [Cock.li](https://cock.li/),
[Autistici](https://www.autistici.org/), or even G-Mail with
[Mailvelope](https://mailvelope.com/)


You can check out the E-mail providers - which one to choose? [^1] article from
[DigDeeper](https://digdeeper.club/) which can give you reviews and a lot of
suggestions.


You have to notice that you **never** use school email for personal work,
creating accounts,...

It's something about privacy and security:


1. Some schools block emails outside the organization.

2. They can delete your email accounts when you leave the university.

3. An administrator can easily reset the password.

4. They can gain unauthorized access to your email account.


But you can choose the **_TrustNoOne_** plan by encrypting your email manually
using PGP. The software you can use is [The GNU Privacy
Guard](https://gnupg.org/).


An email client would be nice: [Claws Mail](https://www.claws-mail.org/),
[NeoMutt](https://neomutt.org/), and [ThunderBird](https://www.thunderbird.net/)
(which should be
[hardened](https://github.com/HorlogeSkynet/thunderbird-user.js) for privacy
concerns). Email clients will help you:


1. Choose the program you like. Not depending on the provider's JavaScript.

2. The mail client will remain constant. Prevent being served malicious
JavaScript.

3. POP3 allows you to keep control of your data in your hands.

4. The variety of features.

5. Support PGP properly.


## Real-time messaging


Although Facebook Messenger, Viber, and WhatsApp come with a lot of features.
But they are data-hungers, no matter how encrypted they are.

Those encryptions can only protect you from attackers, not from those companies.


You can switch to [Signal](https://signal.org/), it's an encrypted messaging
platform that has a good reputation, doesn't store your messages, and is very
easy to use.


Persuading friends to switch to Signal is hard work, but if you try, you will
notice how the data that those companies get from you will decrease.


You can check out some alternatives like [SimpleX Chat](https://simplex.chat/),
[Briar](https://briarproject.org/), [Session](https://getsession.org/), and
[Element](https://element.io/).


## Password manager


I strongly recommend that you use a password manager. It's again something about
privacy and security. It can help you avoid using the same passwords for
multiple platforms, which will reduce the chance of being hacked.


A password manager is good, but it's something about the company that developed
that service. You should never use the built-in password manager in browsers;
it's very easy to hack. The built-in password managers on Apple and Android
devices are good, but they lack multi-platforms, which will lock you in their
ecosystem.


I will recommend using [Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com/), it's free and open
source. You can get their premium for only $10 a year.


Some alternatives like: [ProtonPass](https://proton.me/pass),
[KeePass](https://keepass.info/), [1Password](https://1password.com/).


## Operating System


You can create a new user account that doesn't have root permission.


Check out [privacy.sexy](https://privacy.sexy/), it'll help you turn off
telemetry from the OS.


You can also create multiple user accounts for multiple purposes, just like with
a web browser.


An online sync platform, a hard drive partition, or a USB will help you transfer
files and data.


Linux is the best for privacy, but not all of them. You can check out the
[Desktop/PC article](https://www.privacyguides.org/en/desktop/) and [Operating
Systems](https://www.privacytools.io/os) for more recommendations. Be aware of
Ubuntu.


The operating systems you are using on your phone are mostly iOS or Android. You
can check out Graphene OS. For iOS devices, you don't have too many choices, but
you can have some configurations.


It doesn't matter which OS you're using; make sure that you have strong
encryption on your device.


For an external drive, like a self-host cloud, USB, or hard disk, you can use
built-in encryption or third-party software like
[VeraCrypt](https://veracrypt.eu/).


## Networking


You can use VPNs from Cloudflare (red flag), Proton, Mullvad (the best).

It will prevent network administrators from looking for what you're doing by
encrypting the data flow, creating a fake IP address, ... But be cautious,
because it will mark you as using a VPN.


Using cellular data is not a bad option if you can't use a VPN; it will not
replace a VPN, but it will protect you from hackers. But the service provider
will know what you're doing.


You can choose a DNS resolver from
[Mullvad](https://mullvad.net/en/help/dns-over-https-and-dns-over-tls) or
[Quad9](https://www.quad9.net/support/set-up-guides).


For anything on the internet, you should stay away from Cloudflare [^2]. I'll
guide you on how to reduce the amount of Cloudflare in soon.


## Software


Using school software for school work and personal software for personal work
only.


Instead of using Office 365, you can check out
[LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/).


For sync files, you can use encryption cloud storage from Proton, Tresorit,
Filen, pCloud, IceDrive,... But for the most affordable, you can encrypt your
files before uploading by using [Cryptomator](https://cryptomator.org/),
[7-zip](https://7-zip.org/), [rclone](https://rclone.org/),...


You can also check FOSS (Free and Open Source Software) alternatives for every
application you're using. And should stay away from proprietary software [^3].


For code development, you can check out [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/) to
replace VSCode although it lacks of some features.


Maybe it will get a long blog for software only.


For more information, you can check out: [Open Source Alternative
To](https://www.opensourcealternative.to/) Using
`https://alternativeto.net/software/YOURPRODUCTNAME/?license=opensource`


[^1]: E-mail providers - which one to choose?,
<https://digdeeper.club/articles/email.xhtml> (last visited Jan. 13, 2024).

[^2]: deCloudflare, <https://0xacab.org/dCF/deCloudflare> (last visited Jan. 13,
2024).

[^3]: Proprietary Software Is Often Malware,
<https://www.gnu.org/proprietary/proprietary.html> (last visited Jan. 13, 2024).
